- [Instructor] Well-designed microservices are created
with the single responsibility pattern in mind.
They do one thing and they do it well.
And hearing to this principle creates the need
for microservices to consume other microservices.
This generates East, West traffic
inside of the cluster of services.
The sideways traffic between the microservices
creates new security considerations,
such as how we identify a user
and how we make access decisions
within the cluster of services.
Let's consider a simple e-commerce scenario
where a customer is placing an order.
We'll assume the customer has already authenticated
and the client owned by the e-commerce company
is holding a valid access token.
To place the order,
the order service will need to call the payment service,
which can issue a financial transaction
using the account details of the customer
who is our resource owner.
One anti-pattern is to use a single access token
with a shared scope that allows access to both services.
This isn't ideal
because it starts to form a distributed monolith
where the scopes use to protect both services must align
and we start to build tight coupling.
We also violate the concept of lease privilege
because the access token could be used
to call the more sensitive payment service directly
by the client or even the resource owner
who has access to the access token.
One strategy to avoid this situation
is for the order service
to perform a client credentials grant
to obtain a new access token
prior to calling the payment service.
This allows the order service
and the payment service to have decoupled scopes.
The new access token with the payment scope
is only held by the order service
which avoids providing the client with elevated access.
Unfortunately, while this approach is somewhat better
it still takes us closer to a distributed monolith.
Without the original tokens,
the payment service has no awareness
of the end user's identity.
It is forced to defer access control decisions
to the order service
because the order service can obtain the identity
of the end user using something like the sub-claim
on a JWT
or using the OIDC user info endpoint.
Without any information about the end user's identity,
the payment service has no choice
but to trust the calls it receives from the order service.
If an attacker or an insider
could compromise the order service,
they could issue a payment from any of the customers.
To solve this problem,
we can use a JWT containing claims about the end-user
that is passed along with our new access token
from the order service to the payment service.
Sometimes this is done
by nesting one token inside of the other.
The payment service can read these claims
after verifying the integrity of the token
using at signature.
With this information, the payment service
can identify the user
and make a decision about whether or not
to authorize the payment that's been requested.
When using this approach,
we can apply a pattern
that helps us protect sensitive information
about our end-user.
In this pattern, the client is issued a reference token
that it holds to access the microservices.
When the reference token enters the network
through the API gateway,
it is passed to the IAM platform where it is switched
from a reference token into a structured token.
This structured token or JWT contains claims
about the identity of the end-user.
This approach better protects information
about the end-user because it never sends a structured token
with claims to the client.
However, it does exchange the reference token
for a structured token at the API gateway
that can be passed back to our microservices,
which use it to identify the end-user.
These techniques allow microservices to securely communicate
and helps establish a user context
without any state stored between the services.
When building microservices that must collaborate,
it's important to closely examine calls
from one service to another
to ensure scope or claims based security decisions
do not become intertwined to couple the services together.